
1.QDA Miner Lite

QDA Miner Lite is a free computer assisted qualitative analysis software from
Provalis Research. It can be used for the analysis of textual data such as
interview and news transcripts, open ended responses, as well as for the
analysis of still images. It offers basic CAQDAS features such as, importation
of documents from plain text, RTF, HTML, PDF as well as data stored in Excel,
MS Access, CSV, tab delimited text files. Features also include importation
from other qualitative coding software, intuitive coding using codes organized
in a tree structure, ability to add comments (or memos) to coded segments,
cases or the whole project.

The software also has functionalities for fast Boolean text search tool for
retrieving and coding text segments, code frequency analysis with bar chart,
pie chart and tag clouds, coding retrieval with Boolean and proximity
operators, export tables to XLS, Tab Delimited, CSV formats, and Word format
and export graphs to BMP, PNG, JPEG, WMF formats.

Provalis Research

QDA Miner Lite

QDA Miner Lite

2.GATE

GATE is the General Architecture for Text Engineering. This is an open source
toolbox for natural language processing and language engineering. Used for all
sorts of language processing tasks and applications, including voice of the
customer, cancer research, drug research, decision support, recruitment, web
mining, information extraction and semantic annotation.

GATE includes an information extraction system called ANNIE which is known as A
Nearly-New Information Extraction System. This is a set of modules comprising a
tokenizer, a gazetteer, a sentence splitter, a part of speech tagger, a named
entities transducer and a coreference tagger. ANNIE can be used as-is to
provide basic information extraction functionality, or provide a starting point
for more specific tasks.
Languages currently handled in GATE are English, Spanish, Chinese, Arabic,
Bulgarian, French, German, Hindi, Italian, Cebuano, Romanian, Russian.

GATE

GATE

GATE

3.TAMS Analyzer

TAMS Analyzer for Macintosh OS X is a convention for identifying themes in
texts such as web pages, interviews, field notes. It was designed for use in
ethnographic and discourse research. TAMS Analyzer is a program that works with
TAMS to assign ethnographic codes to passages of a text just by selecting the
relevant text and double clicking the name of the code on a list. It then
allows to extract, analyze, and save coded information.

TAMS Analyzer

TAMS Analyzer

TAMS Analyzer

4.Carrot2

Carrot2 does text and search results clustering frame work. It can
automatically cluster small collections of documents, search results or
document abstracts into thematic categories. Its an open source search results
Clustering Engine. Apart from two specialized search results clustering
algorithms, Carrot also offers ready to use components for fetching search
results from various sources such as including GoogleAPI, Bing API, eTools Meta
Search, Lucene, SOLR, and more.

Carrot2

Carrot2

Carrot2

5.CAT

CAT is a free service of the Qualitative Data Analysis Program, which
efficiently code raw text data sets, annotate coding with shared memos, manage
team coding permissions via the Web, create unlimited collaborator sub-accounts
and assign multiple coders to specific tasks. CAT, easily measure inter-rater
reliability, adjudicate valid & invalid coder decisions,report validity by
dataset, code or coder and export coding in RTF, CSV or XML format.

CAT

6.KH Coder

[INS::INS]

KH Coder is an application for quantitative content analysis, text mining or
corpus linguistics. It can handle Japanese, English, French, German, Italian,
Portuguese and Spanish language data.
By inputting the raw texts the searching and statistical analysis
functionalities like KWIC, collocation statistics, co-occurrence networks,
self-organizing map, multidimensional scaling, cluster analysis and
correspondence analysis can be utilized.KH Coder provides various kinds of
search and statistical analysis functions using back-end tools such as Stanford
POS Tagger, Snowball stemmer, MySQL and R.

KH Coder

KH Coder

KH Coder

7.tm (Text Mining Infrastructure in R)

tm package provides a framework for text mining applications within R. The tm
package offers functionality for managing text documents, abstracts the process
of document manipulation and eases the usage of heterogeneous text formats in
R. The package provides native support for reading in several classic file
formats such as plain text, PDFs, or XML files. There is also a plug-in
mechanism to handle additional file formats. The data structures and algorithms
can be extended to fit custom demands.

tm

tm

tm

8.Gensim

Gensim is a Python library which provides scalable statistical semantics,
analyze plain text documents for semantic structure and retrieve semantically
similar documents. The algorithms in gensim, such as Latent Semantic Analysis,
Latent Dirichlet Allocation or Random Projections, discover semantic structure
of documents, by examining word statistical co-occurrence patterns within a
corpus of training documents. These algorithms are unsupervised.

[INS::INS]

Gensim

9.Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK)

Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK) is a suite of libraries and programs for
symbolic and statistical natural language processing (NLP) for the Python
programming language. It provides easy-to-use interfaces to over 50 corpora and
lexical resources such as WordNet, along with a suite of text processing
libraries for classification, tokenization, stemming, tagging, parsing, and
semantic reasoning. NLTK is available for Windows, Mac OS X, and Linux.

Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK)

10.RapidMiner

RapidMiner is an integrated environment for machine learning, data mining, text
mining, predictive analytics and business analytics. The Text Processing
Extension provides data and text mining software.

RapidMiner

Rapidminer

Rapidminer

11.Unstructured Information Management Architecture (UIMA)

Unstructured Information Management Architecture (UIMA) is a component
framework to analyze unstructured content such as text, audio and video. This
is originally developed by IBM.

UIMA enables applications to be decomposed into components, for example
“language identification” => “language specific segmentation” => “sentence
boundary detection” => Each component implements interfaces defined by the
framework and provides self describing metadata via XML descriptor files. Also
provides capabilities to wrap components as network services, and can scale to
very large volumes by replicating processing pipelines over a cluster of
networked nodes.

Unstructured Information Management Architecture (UIMA)

UIMA

UIMA

12.OpenNLP

The Apache OpenNLP library is a machine learning based toolkit for the
processing of natural language text. It supports the most common NLP tasks,
such as tokenization, sentence segmentation, part-of-speech tagging, named
entity extraction, chunking, parsing, and coreference resolution. These tasks
are usually required to build more advanced text processing services.

OpenNLP

13. KNIME Text Processing

The KNIME Text processing feature enables to read, process, mine and visualize
textual data in a convenient way. It provides functionality from natural
language processing (NLP), text mining and information retrieval.

KNIME Text processing

14.Orange-Textable

Textable is an add-on for Orange data mining software package. It enables users
to build data tables on the basis of text data, by means of a flexible and
intuitive interface. It offers in particular the following features such as
import text data from various sources, apply systematic recoding operations,
apply analytical processes such as segmentation and annotation, manually,
automatically or randomly select unit subsets and build concordances and
collocation lists.

Orange Textable

15.LPU

LPU is Learning from Positive and Unlabeled data. LPU is a text learning or
classification system that learns from a set of positive documents and a set of
unlabeled documents, without labeled negative documents. This type of learning
is different from classic text learning/classification, in which both positive
and negative training documents are required.

LPU

16.Apache Mahout

Apache Mahout is a project of the Apache Software Foundation with the objective
of creating scalable machine learning algorithms that are free to use under the
Apache license. Mahout contains implementations for clustering, categorization
and collaborative filtering. The implementation can be on the top of Apache
Hadoop using the map/reduce paradigm. The three use cases which are supported
are, recommendation mining, which takes users behavior and from that tries to
find items users might like. Clustering which takes the text documents and
groups them into groups of topically related documents. Classification which
learns from existing categorized documents on what documents of a specific
category look like and assign unlabelled documents to the correct category.

Apache Mahout
