1.SAS Text Analytics

SAS provides a comprehensive Text Analytics software suite to discover and
extract information from text content. SAS software uses advanced statistical
modeling, natural language processing and advanced linguistic technologies to
discover patterns and trends from any text in any format. SAS Text Analytics
are used in early-warning systems, citizen intelligence, patient safety and
digital content performance.

SAS Text Analytics has the following components: SAS Contextual Analysis, SAS
Enterprise Content Categorization, SAS Ontology Management, SAS Sentiment
Analysis and SAS Text Miner. SAS Text Miner and Teragram integration provides
solutions for commercial text analytics, natural language processing, and
taxonomy software.

SAS Text Analytics

SAS Text Analytics

SAS Text Analytics

2. IBM Text Analytics

IBM provides nautral language processing solutions LanguageWare (LW) and IBM
Content Analytics (ICA). These solutions provides an easy to use environment
for capturing the knowledge into dictionaries and semantic rules for re-use,
allows customizable Information Extraction and Offers entity & relationship
recognition.

IBM Text Analytics

IBM Text Analytics

IBM Text Analytics

3. SAP Text Analytics

SAP Data Services is an enterprise class solution for data integration,
quality, profiling, and text analysis which delivers trusted data to support
your critical business functions and improve decision making.

SAP BusinessObjects Text Analysis is a text analysis software from SAP that was
originally created by Inxight Software.

SAP Text Analytics

4. Lexalytics Text Analytics

Lexalytics is a provider of a text analytics engine. Lexalytics builds a multi
lingual text analytics engine, Salience. Salience is currently integrated into
systems for market research, social media monitoring and sentiment analysis,
survey analysis/voice of customer, enterprise search, public policy. Salience
supports a number of text processing, natural language processing, and text
analytics technologies such as Sentiment Analysis, Named Entity Extraction,
Theme (Context) Extraction, Entity-Level Sentiment Analysis, Summarization and
Facet and Attribute Extraction . Langauges supported are English, German,
French, Portuguese, and Spanish.

Lexalytics Text Analytics
Lexalytics Sentiment Toolkit

Lexalytics Sentiment Toolkit

5. Smartlogic

Smartlogic Semaphore solution provides content intelligence platform containing
commercial text analytics, natural language processing, rule-based
classification, ontology/taxonomy modelling and information visualization.
Smartlogic solution automatically applies the metadata and classification to
deliver better search and navigation experience. The solution improves
findability of information from text.

Smartlogic
Smart Logic Document Library

Smart Logic Document Library

6. ai-one

ai-one provides application programming interfaces (APIs) that enable
developers to build machine learning applications. The product portfolio
includes NathanAPP and Topic-Mapper.

ai-one

7. Provalis Research

Provalis Research is a developer of text analysis software with qualitative,
quantitative and mixed methods programs. WordStat is a content analysis and
text mining add-on module of QDA Miner for analyzing large amounts of text
data.

Provalis Research
Correspondence plot

WordStat Correspondence plot

8. OpenText

OpenText Content Suite provides a platform to capture, document and records
management, workflow, search and archiving as well as applications and add-ons
such as email, eDiscovery, auto-classification, contract management and
engineering document management.

OpenText

9. Pingar

Pingar delvers the Pingar API which works with existing enterprise information
systems Pingar’s process is intuitive, and yields contextually relevant results
and tools to extract information, and transform that information into
intelligence.

Pingar

10. AlchemyAPI

AlchemyAPI provides cloud based and text analysis infrastructure that
eliminates the expense and difficulty of integrating natural language
processing systems into application, service, or data processing pipeline.

AlchemyAPI

11. Attensity

Attensity is a hosted, integrated and stand alone text mining and analytics
software that uses natural language processing technology to address collective
intelligence in social media and forums.

Attensity
Attensity

Attensity

12. Clarabridge

Clarabridge provides text analytics, text mining software, including natural
language (NLP), machine learning, clustering and categorization.

Clarabridge

13. Content Analyst

Content Analyst provide analytics solutions to reduce the time needed to
discern relevant information from unstructured data. CAAT, text analytics suite
technologies, provides solutions to extract insights from large amounts of
unstructured data.

Content Analyst

14. Oracle Social Cloud – Collective Intellect

Collective Intellect’s semantic analytics engine processes millions of
conversations daily, transforming social conversations into actionable
intelligence. Collective Intellect was acquired by Oracle and integrated with
Oracle’s Software-as-a-service Oracle Social Cloud.

Oracle Social Cloud – Collective Intellect

15. Expert System

 Expert System provides Cogito which is based on an advanced semantic analysis
engine and a complete semantic network. Cogito offer a complete set of features
including: semantic search and natural language search, text analytics,
development and management of taxonomies and ontologies, automatic
categorization, extraction of data and metadata, and natural language
processing.

Expert System

16. LingPipe

[INS::INS]

LingPipe is tool kit for processing text using computational linguistics.
LingPipe is used to do tasks such as find the names of people, organizations or
locations in news, automatically classify Twitter search results into
categories and suggest correct spellings of queries.

LingPipe

17. Autonomy

Autonomy provides text mining, clustering and categorization software. HP
Autonomy products include Intelligent Data Operating Layer (IDOL). This allows
for search and processing of text taken from both structured data and
unstructured human information such as e-mail and mobile data originates from a
database, audio, video, text files or streams.The processing of such
information by IDOL is referred to by Autonomy as Meaning-Based Computing.

Autonomy

18. Rapid Miner

RapidMiner’s Sentiment Analysis application wizard analyze the social media
stream and see the customor feedback.

Rapid Miner

19. Saplo

Saplo provide services that extract and refine valuable information from large
quantities of text through an API (Application programming interface). Services
can be used either stand alone or combined into new and exiting concepts and
technologies.

Saplo

20. Angoss Text Analytics

Angoss Text Analytics solution KnowledgeREADER provides entity and theme
extraction, topic categorization, sentiment analysis and document summarization
capabilities.

Angoss Text Analytics
Angoss Text Analytics

Angoss Text Analytics

21. AeroText

AeroText is a suite of text mining applications for content analysis. Content
used can be in multiple languages.

AeroText

22. DiscoverText

DiscoverText is a cloud-based, collaborative text analytics solution that
generate valuable insights about customers, products, employees, news,
citizens, and more. With dozens of powerful text mining features, the
DiscoverText software solution provides tools to quickly and accurately make
better decisions. The unique ActiveLearning machine classification engine
improves over time.DiscoverText is able to reliably sift and sort all text data
including social media, thousands of survey responses, streams of customer
service requests, e-mail, or other electronic text.

DiscoverText
DiscoverText

DiscoverText

23. NetOwl

NetOwl is a suite of multilingual text and entity analytics products, including
entity extraction, link and event extraction, sentiment analysis, geotagging,
name translation.

NetOwl

24.Language Computer Corporation

Language Computer Corporation provides text extraction and analysis tools,
available in multiple languages.

Language Computer Corporation

25. Basis Technology

Basis Technology provides a suite of text analysis modules to identify
language, enable search in more than 20 languages, extract entities, and
efficiently search for and translate entities.

Basis Technology

26. Oracle Endeca

Oracle Endeca Technologies provides software to analyze and cluster
unstructured text including self service Data Mashup, Drag & Drop Dashboards,
Consumer Style Exploration.

Oracle Endeca

27. Textalytics

Textalytics is a full set of multilingual cloud-based text analytics APIs for
automatic classification, entities and concepts extraction, sentiment analysis,
and more.

Textalytics

28. StatSoft

StatSoft provides STATISTICA Text Miner as an optional extension to STATISTICA
data miner.

StatSoft

29. Temis

Luxid Content Enrichment Platform brings solutions for structuring, managing
and exploiting unstructured content.

Temis

30. Verint Systems

Verint Systems provides capabilities for text analytics to collect, analyze,
and act on customer interactions from a variety of text-based communication
channels.

Verint Systems

31.Ascribe

Ascribe provides flexible Ascribe Intelligence platform, which is a suite of
integrated analytic tools that empower companies to gather, classify, code and
then visualize customer comments affordable.The Ascribe platform – Inspector,
Accelerator, Coder and Illustrator delivers the ease and speed of automation.

Ascribe

32.Forest Rim’s Textual ETL

Forest Rim’s Textual ETL is a technology software that takes raw text, uses
textual disambiguation technology and creates disambiguated text into a
standard data base ready for analysis. Textual ETL read text in any format in
any language and to convert the text to a standard relational data base (DB2,
Oracle, Teradata, SQL Server etc) where the text is in a useful meaningful
format.

Textual ETL

33.muText Mu Sigma

Mu Sigma’s text mining engine enables knowledge discovery from unstructured and
semi-structured data. It enables advanced analytics by mining business
intelligence from varied textual sources such as CRM data (identifying
frequently occurring customer complaints, quantifying CSAT, etc.), E-mail data
(spam filtering, abuse detection, etc.), etc.

muText Mu Sigma

34.Text2data

Text2data analytics solution analyse in-house documents, emails, CRM comments
to track customer satisfaction. It can also dynamically change the content of
your website based on your user’s opinions and set-up early warning and
response triggers.

Text2data

35.LinguaSys

LinguaSys provides a range of text analytics solution, from named entity
extraction and social media listening, to actionable intelligence extraction
and crosslingual retrieval based on Carabao Linguistic Virtual Machine
platform.

LinguaSys

36.Taste Analytics

Taste Analytics provides a robust analytics engine that can ingest any type of
unstructured data and quickly identify trends, patterns, and outlying themes.
It incorporates state of the art predictive modeling, artificial intelligence,
and robust statistical NLP algorithms to find the stories that the data is
trying to tell.

Taste Analytics

37.Megaputer

Megaputer provides two separate software packages for text analysis.
PolyAnalyst performs linguistic and semantic text analysis and coding,
clustering and categorization of documents, entity extraction, visualization of
patterns, automated or manual taxonomy creation, text OLAP, and generating
interactive graphical reports on results. TextAnalyst provides a list of the
most important keywords in a document, a set of related keywords for each word,
and the ability to automatically summarize a document or perform natural
language queries.

Megaputer

You may also like to review the Text Analysis, Text Mining, Text Analytics
freeware/open source list:
